sl beta docs (#3705)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/setup-sl.md

---
title: "Set up the dbt Semantic Layer"
id: setup-sl

> description: "Seamlessly set up the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud using intuitive nagivation."

Reviewer: sugg: consider removing or using diff words than "seamlessly" and "intuitive". in techdocs, the motivation is similar to using "easier" instead of "easy". this is because what if the person doesn't find it easy, reading the word "easy" could just annoy or add to their frustration (ie it might not seem "seamless" or "intuitive" to the person and we should be mindful of that). 

```suggestion
description: "Seamlessly set up the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud using intuitive navigation."
```

sidebar_label: "Set up your Semantic Layer"
tags: [Semantic Layer]
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.6">

import NewSLChanges from '/snippets/_new-sl-changes.md';

<NewSLChanges />

> With the dbt Semantic Layer, you'll be able to centrally define business metrics, reduce code duplication and inconsistency, create self-service in downstream tools, and more. Configure the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud to connect with your integrated partner tool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dbt Semantic Layer, you can centrally define business metrics, reduce code duplication and inconsistency, create self-service in downstream tools, and more. Configure the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud to connect with your integrated partner tool. 
```

## Prerequisites

> Before you set up the dbt Semantic Layer, make sure you meet the following:

Reviewer: sugg: since "prereqs" imply "you need/you must have", you can remove this intro sentence for conciseness

```suggestion
```

## Prerequisites

Before you set up the dbt Semantic Layer, make sure you meet the following:

import SetUp from '/snippets/_v2-sl-prerequisites.md';

<SetUp />

<Snippet src="sl-considerations-banner" />

> ## Set up dbt Semantic Layer

Author: need updated images and instructions to new set up

Reviewer 2: @mirnawong1  do you need screenshots for set up here - is that what you mean?

Author: i did! but i've got access to the sandbox so i can do it now 🙌

5. In the **Project Details** page, select **Configure Semantic Layer.** This will prompt you to enter data platform connection credentials for the Semantic Layer and select the environment where you want to enable the Semantic Layer. We recommend using a less privileged set of credentials when setting up your connection. The semantic layer requires SELECT and CREATE TABLE permissions.
6. After you’ve entered your credentials, you should see connection information that will allow you to connect to downstream tools. If the tool you are using can connect with JDBC, you can save the **JDBC URL** or each of the individual components provided (e.g., environment id, host). Alternatively, if the tool you connect to uses the Semantic Layer GraphQL API, save the GraphQL API host information.
7. Next, go back to the **Project Details** page and select **Generate Service Token** to create a Semantic Layer service token. Save this token for later.
8. You’re done 🎉! The semantic layer should is now enabled for your project. 
-->

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import LegacyInfo from '/snippets/_legacy-sl-callout.md';

<LegacyInfo />

> With the dbt Semantic Layer, you'll be able to centrally define business metrics, reduce code duplication and inconsistency, create self-service in downstream tools, and more. Configure the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud to connect with your integrated partner tool. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dbt Semantic Layer, you can define business metrics, reduce code duplication and inconsistency, create self-service in downstream tools, and more. Configure the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud to connect with your integrated partner tool. 
```

## Prerequisites

> Before you set up the dbt Semantic Layer, make sure you meet the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Snippet path="sl-prerequisites" />

## Set up dbt Semantic Layer

:::tip

> If you're using the legacy Semantic Layer, we **highly** recommend you [upgrade your dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud) to dbt v1.6 or higher to use the new dbt Semantic Layer. Refer to the dedicated [migration guide](/guides/migration/sl-migration) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the legacy Semantic Layer, dbt Labs strongly recommends that you [upgrade your dbt version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-core-in-cloud) to dbt v1.6 or higher to use the latest dbt Semantic Layer. Refer to the dedicated [migration guide](/guides/migration/sl-migration) for more info.
```

:::

> Before you continue with the following steps, you **must** have a multi-tenant dbt Cloud account hosted in North America. 

Reviewer: sugg: remove duplicate since it was already stated in the "prereqs" section immediately above this

```suggestion
```

 * Team and Enterprise accounts can set up the Semantic Layer and [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) in the integrated partner tool to import metric definitions. 

>  * Developer accounts can query the Proxy Server using SQL but won't be able to browse dbt metrics in external tools, which requires access to the Discovery API.

Reviewer: great info in the 2 bullets above. instead of a list, sugg adding an intro paragraph (which is common practice before a set of steps) and work this info into it

> You can set up the dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud at the environment level by following these steps:

Reviewer: sugg: this is already implied since this is the "Set up dbt SL" section so you can remove for conciseness.

```suggestion
```

> 1. Login to your dbt Cloud account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log in to your dbt Cloud account.
```

2. Go to **Account Settings**, and then **Service Tokens** to create a new [service account API token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens). Save your token somewhere safe. 

> 3. Assign permissions to service account tokens depending on the integration tool you choose. You can review the [integration partner documentation](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) to determine the permission sets you need to assign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Assign permissions to service account tokens depending on the integration tool you choose. Refer to the [integration partner documentation](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) to determine the permission sets you need to assign.
```

> 4. Go to **Deploy** and then **Environment**, and select your **Deployment** environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to **Deploy** > **Environments**, and select your **Deployment** environment.
```

> 5. Click on **Settings** on the top right side of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Settings** on the top right side of the page.
```

6. Click **Edit** on the top right side of the page.
7. Select dbt version 1.2 or higher.

> 8. Toggle the Semantic Layer **On**.

Reviewer: the bold suggests that there's a UI label with "On". is that true? 

if there's an option name, suggest using that instead, like "Enable the **UI label name** option." 

```suggestion
8. Toggle the Semantic Layer **On**.
```

Author: yes it's labeled with On!

9. Copy the full proxy server URL (like `https://eagle-hqya7.proxy.cloud.getdbt.com`) to connect to your [integrated partner tool](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations). 
10. Use the URL in the data source configuration of the integrated partner tool.
11. Use the data platform login credentials that make sense for how the data is consumed.

:::info📌 

> Note  - It is _not_ recommended that you use your dbt Cloud credentials due to elevated permissions. Instead, you can use your specific integration tool permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is _not_ recommended that you use your dbt Cloud credentials due to elevated permissions. Instead, you can use your specific integration tool permissions.
```

:::

12. Set up the [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) (Team and Enterprise accounts only) in the integrated partner tool to import the metric definitions. The [integrated partner tool](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) will treat the dbt Server as another data source (like a data platform). This requires:

> - The account ID, environment ID, and job ID (visible in the job URL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The account ID, environment ID, and job ID (which is visible in the job URL)
```

11. Use the data platform login credentials that make sense for how the data is consumed.

:::info📌 

Note  - It is _not_ recommended that you use your dbt Cloud credentials due to elevated permissions. Instead, you can use your specific integration tool permissions.

:::

12. Set up the [Discovery API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/discovery-api) (Team and Enterprise accounts only) in the integrated partner tool to import the metric definitions. The [integrated partner tool](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) will treat the dbt Server as another data source (like a data platform). This requires:

- The account ID, environment ID, and job ID (visible in the job URL)
- An [API service token](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/service-tokens) with job admin and metadata permissions
- Add the items above to the relevant fields in your integration tool

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/semantic-layer/configure_sl.png" title="Set up dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud" /><br />

 
## Related docs

- [Integrated partner tools](https://www.getdbt.com/product/semantic-layer-integrations) for info on the different integration partners and their documentation

> - [Product architecture](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-semantic-layer#product-architecture) page for more information on plan availability

Author: ```suggestion
```
